# Final Project

## Domain of interest

The domain we chose to analyze is a data set related to the mental health of employees in different tech companies. Looking at mental health statistics within companies is of interest to us because it allows us to see whether factors like company size, role within the company, or type of company have a particular effect on the mental health of their employees. It is important to be aware of a possible correlation because it may be necessary to advocate for certain types of employees who do not receive the proper resources. Additionally, this domain gives us an insight into the intersection between people's personal and professional lives. Although American culture promotes a separation of the two, they affect each other nonetheless.

One data driven project related to mental health of employees is the CDC's annual report of suicide rates by major occupation. This data compares the rates of suicide within different industries and shows the difference in rates among men versus women. The analysis related to the dataset also notes that the annual suicide rate in the U.S. has increased 34% between 2000 and 2016 which is important to note considering how industries are shifting. (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm6745a1.htm)

Another data driven project related to this domain is Alphabet's (Google's parent company) work combining electroencephalography (EEG) with machine learning software to research mental health. They essentially are getting data from the brain by measuring electrical activity in order to look for a biomarker for depression and anxiety. This data may also be used to quantitatively measure mental health changes over time.

The third data driven project found in relation to the stated topics is a global study on mental health conducted by Our World in Data. The massive amount of data compiled for the study shows varying percentages of those with listed mental health conditions by region, highlighting important takeaways for each region by visualizing struggling proportions. The study also compares depression rates with level of education and employment status, which proves useful in determining the relation of social status to mental disorder prevalence.
(https://ourworldindata.org/mental-health)

One question we hope to answer whether employers in the tech industry are responding to their employees' mental health concerns effectively. We hope to discover whether there are specific factors, like company size, company culture, and prior diagnoses make employees more likely to suffer mental health conditions than employees in other domains, so employers can account for these effectively.

## Finding Data

1. [This data](https://www.kaggle.com/rtatman/silicon-valley-diversity-data?select=Tech_sector_diversity_demographics_2016.csv) was collected from companies' federally required Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reports. The dataset is compiling diversity data for large Silicon Valley companies, or in other words, tech companies with locations in the San Francisco Bay area (that have at least 100 employees). The dataset contains 177 rows, as it analyses 177 different companies. It also contains five main columns/features: company, race, gender, year, and job category. One question that could be answered from this dataset is how does the diversity of some of the country's biggest tech companies compare to that of the rest of the country? A question that this dataset could contribute to in terms of mental health in the tech industry is does diversity in the workplace have any correlation with mental health?

2. [This data set](https://www.kaggle.com/mathurinache/world-happiness-report?select=2017.csv) uses information collected from the Gallop World Survey which measures 155 state's "bliss levels."  The overall happiness score is based on factors like the countries GDP, life expectancy, family size, and overall well being. Each of the 10 columns contains these different factors, while each of the 155 columns represent the statistics for a unique country. This data set is relevant as it can help determine if economic factors like GDP impact the mental health of a country's population. If there is a correlation, it might show that people who are higher up within companies, meaning those who receive higher pay, are less likely to suffer from mental health issues.

3. [This](https://www.kaggle.com/anth7310/mental-health-in-the-tech-industry) uses survey data from 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019, answering varying questions related to mental health. The questions begin with history of mental illness in the family or individual, and follows with relation to the workplace. There is also inclusion of questions framed to determine the attitude of employers in regards to mental health, and with ties to company size, there should be correlation shown between workplace culture and results in the mental health of the employees. If correlation is shown, the data may provide insight into the effect of social stigma surrounding mental health, especially in professional environments.
